Disaster recovery (DR) is an area of security planning that aims to protect an organization from the effects of significant negative events.

Having a disaster recovery strategy in place enables an organization to maintain or quickly resume mission-critical functions following a disruption.

Cardano as a proposed financial operating system for the world must have several layers of built in redundancies even for events that may seem remote or very unlikely now.

Although a testnet exists, real-world conditions can never be fully replicated. Maybe proposers can develop a way of incentivizing further SPO participation in the Cardano testnet and more simulations.

### Why is it important?
A system that aspires to become a global financial operating system, must be stress tested. Running nodes should be prepared for disaster.

### How does success look like?
Likely points of failure identified. Disaster communication channels set up. Recovery procedures identified. Testing procedures developed.

### Key Metrics to measure
- has a methodology for decentralized stress testing of the main network been developed - by and for stakepool operators?
- are participating stakepools being rewarded for taking part in mainnet disaster recovery tests?
- are there enough incentives in place for participating in the Cardano testnet?
- are stakepool operators able to conduct limited network stress testing (overload, disconnection, bad actor, DDoS … scenarios) and are they rewarded for participating in these tests (instead of being punished by losing slots)?
- have new guidelines, recommendations and emergency communication channels been established for stakepool operators who wish to take part in these emergency preparations?
- has a a dedicated risk-assessment and risk-management team been set up?
- have protocols been developed for recovering from an emergency situation that could take most of the main network offline?
- have proposals been developed for building in different kinds of redundancies?
- have new benchmarks been developed to measure whether the Cardano stake pool network is safer, more stable, more resilient and more decentralized?
- have wider screening of risk sources been performed: CyberSecurity, political and regulatory risks, internet-related risks etc.
